---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E17
date: 2016-09-15
labels:
  - ConfigurationManagment
---

## It makes life so much easier.
	Configuration management is just something that seems to have been used to some degree in all types of group projects.  Even as children in grade school, we were exposed to this practice through role delegations.  Each person was usually assigned a certain section of the project and that was what they worked on until given another assignment.  This way two people wouldn’t be doing the same thing where the end result is they both have done the exact same thing, however one members efforts will have been for nothing as one members work will just be thrown away or kept as back up but most likely unused.

## We've been doing it for years?

	So far I haven’t really come across any problems when working on any type of group projects.  Usually role delegation was common practice and no one ever had any issues with it.  And if group members worked on the same section of the project, it was either served a function, or no one cared enough to make a big deal about it.  Usually in the latter case, the project was more for amusement and everyone was more excited to see each members take on that role or section of the project.  However, this lack of problems with group projects could be due to a lack of better methods to finish the project.  The use of modern Configuration management programs would most likely helped produce better results in the finished product as simple things like seeing each others current work would make teamwork easier.

## If Github is free, use it

	I can’t really say why Github is popular as at the moment my experience with Github and other Configuration management programs is limited.  So at the moment I am unable to compare and contrast Github with other similar programs in a manner where I’m comfortable in thinking I’d produce a reasonable result and thesis.  However, at the moment I do believe that Github may be popular due to the fact that it’s easily accessible and free.  If people can achieve reasonable results with something free I’m sure they’ll do so.
